hey everyone me again lhasa montgomery
part 4 today in our tea history series
lu you and the Tong dynasty are behind
us now and tea is hit the big time all
over china in this part 4 episode will
continue looking at the history of tea
in china after luuuv departed us in his
earthly form in the year 804 in the
history of tea as it pertains to japan
that was a banner year in 804 two of the
more famous and important people in
Japanese tea history Koo Chi and Saito
both Buddhist monks returned to Japan
from China with tea seeds and knowledge
of tea cultivation and tea rituals and
ceremonies we mentioned sideshow last
episode but Koo Chi who didn't get a
mention was no less important we
mentioned the sign a file Japanese
Emperor at the time Empress Agha who was
astounded by this beverage in its
potential and he'll go down in Japanese
tea history is the first emperor to be
served tea for past CHP episodes we know
the Tong dynasty doesn't last forever
and starts to break down in the 9th
century finally going down for the count
in 907 after a brilliant 289 year run
from the Chama dal going back to the
seventh century coupled with all kinds
of advances in tea processing and
presentation tea had evolved into a
blockbuster hit with China's neighbors
to the north west and especially south
west that's one of the great legacies of
tea in the Tong it was a very big
regional trading item in the 9th and
10th centuries sailing on the high seas
was still only for the most adventurous
among these were some fearless Arab
traders engaged in China trade sailing
small cargo vessels there from the near
East some of you may recall the story of
the shipwreck discovered in 1998
indonesian fishermen discovered the
wreck of a 58 footlong arab doll called
the jewel of Muscat
off Bailey tongue island this is an
island about halfway between Borneo and
Sumatra the wreck was dated to about
8:30 see he in the wreck was found quite
a large collection of Tong dynasty
artifacts it was called the Tong
treasure in one single shipwreck they
found gold silver and ceramic ware from
Changsha the ding kilns and yeah where
one of the bowls was dated 826 EE
if you're ever in Singapore this is all
on display there at the Maritime
experiential Museum there was a very
bloody and gory bridge in between the
end of the tongue and the beginning of
the Song Dynasty it lasted from 907 to
960 53 years of battles and disunity
before Chow kuan-yin the last general
standing found at the song it was about
one century since Lulu died when Jo Kuan
Yin said on the throne and Kai Fung and
he ushered in a golden age that many
argue was even more golden than the
preceding Tong dynasty as far as T goes
it certainly was I know things didn't
move as fast back then as they do now
but still a lot could happen in a
century especially in a place like China
as far as he was concerned with so many
new tea artisans getting into the game a
lot of progress had been made and a lot
of new teas began hitting the market and
the song brick tea wasn't so cool
anymore
bricks weren't so cool but the whole
idea of compressed tea cakes were the
song era tea cakes would be molded and
embossed with all kinds of - courts have
Lucky symbols or Chinese characters and
of course they came wrapped in all these
great woodblock printed papers and these
to do this thing as a final touch they'd
sent these beautiful tea cakes with
camphor wood it wasn't enough just to
make something worthy to be an imperial
tribute tea the way the tea was packaged
was also important so like today's tea
marketers these tea masters would come
up with all kinds of ways to come up
with that final
touch that final bit of elegance that
screamed out that this tea was special
and even today the packaging for some of
these higher-end gift teas is really
something else so valuable
were these compressed tea cakes that
they actually became a de facto
secondary currency
besides the advances in these new molded
and elegant tea cakes perhaps one of the
most defining aspects of song tea
history involved the introduction and
popularity of what in Mandarin we call
mo cha and in Japanese matcha this is
powder tea leaves that have been dried
processed and then ground down into a
powder this is how they did it in the
song the tea in its powdered form was
mixed with water so that when you drank
the tea you consumed both the water and
the leaves it's totally different from
steeping believes in your tea copper
teapot this is where the whisk took
center stage yeah that's what became
popular during the song I'm sure most of
you are familiar with this process
especially if you know about Japanese
chattel or seeing a Japanese cha know
you tea ceremony it's funny it started
in China probably at the song court or
at least in Chi Fung well maybe down in
the south who knows but when this style
of preparing and drinking powdered tea
got to Japan they really took to it they
took to it so much that even to this day
matcha or tench is still very much alive
and well and is still part of the China
you after the song more cha got left in
the dust and the Chinese went on to
bigger and better things the method of
whisking the tea into a froth was called
en shaa it was much more difficult than
it looked it wasn't like pouring water
on instant oatmeal there was a whole art
to it
in this episode we'll examine the state
of the art in tea during the song and
then in the UN and into the Ming if we
can and we'll look at some of the
characters like we did last time in this
episode we'll look at size young and
we'll
revisit our old friend Emperor wait zone
one of the ways T was so important was
as a medium for all the northern Song
artsy-fartsy types to discuss philosophy
create poetry paintings and ceramics the
ceremony the rituals and the meaning
behind every move became so elegant and
so stylized in the time of the song
we'll look at song T where that was
rather new and innovative compared to
what was considered stylish in the
tongue song ceramics are quite regular
items up for auction at all the Great
Houses south of Bea's leopards
Christie's and others they fetch
millions why is that it was because
craftsman during the song took ceramics
to new heights driven by the importance
of tea and what it meant to the Chinese
people from the 10th to 12th century
more of that later
especially after Lulu who made quite a
fuss about the importance of the tea
where you used the brilliant craftsman
operating out of all the greatest kilns
of the day took everything great that
the tongue started and brought it to a
new level a new level of sophistication
and design materials and firing as far
as T becoming central to formal and
everyday Chinese etiquette the Song
Dynasty is when it went to even greater
heights
although it may have started it and
become widespread during the tongue by
the song normal rules of hospitality
dictated you served your guests tea and
uncertain holidays and other auspicious
days perhaps an ancestors birthday you
serve tea and even offered it up to your
dearly departed with tea now firmly
inserted into the daily picture it
created an additional layer of lemo or
etiquette to go with everything else
accumulated since Joe goings time let's
look at Tai Shan first he was the Liu Yu
of his day and I guess he could call him
the 1 XI cheer of his day also
you all remember one sheeter CHP 96 so
great was his calligraphy that the types
Emperor Lee Sherman requested a copy of
one sheet Jers most famous work the
Lanting cheese shoe to be buried with
him in his tomb
Tyshawn was with tae Jing of wait songs
time one of the greatest calligraphers
of his age and some say the whole Song
Dynasty he lived from ten twelve to ten
sixty seven dying a year after the
Battle of Hastings to give you a little
time stamp the other three most famous
song calligraphers also mentioned in the
same breath with Tai Sheng where su sure
wanting Jin and me fooled when talking
about song calligraphy plenty of Chinese
can rattle off the name Sue Wong needs
height size young came from present-day
Putin in between Changjo and Foucault in
one of the world's true tea paradises
Fujian province he served as an official
during the time of the redzone Emperor
this was also the time of Oh yang show
who we featured in episode CHP 71 sighs
yung is mostly known for his calligraphy
in his work called the cha Lu the record
of tea this along with the cha ching the
classic of tea are among the most
important of all the many tea treatises
the cha Lu is divided up into two parts
like the cha ching which tyshaun
freshens up a little it adds more
narrative to the tools of the way to
prepare tea one thing he says is stop
impregnating the smell of the tea cakes
with his camphor wood he was a purist
like Louie when it came to adding stuff
to the tea leaves both were very strong
advocates for drinking tea by itself the
whole fashion of whipping the tea into a
froth was an activity that was very
popular during the salad days of the
song I'd go so far as to say that was
their signature contribution to Chinese
tea culture the swells of the day and
all the great cities famous for high
concentrations of literati used to hold
these dough cha contests they were also
called me
John forty Wars Ming being the name
chosen for tea instead of cha and a John
is a battle to doe cha translates
loosely to having tea struggle or fight
its simplest level it was a Iron Chef
kind of a contest to see who could
prepare the best tea one would face off
against their various opponents and you
put that powder and that cop then with a
whisk in one hand and a pot of boiled
water or you were in the other you'd
start mixing it up get it just right and
then you present it to the judge of the
contest tea aficionados and everyone in
Fujian province might be cringing right
now about that completely stripped down
description of some dough cha tea
contests actually the whole matter was
slightly more complicated in these dole
cha events it wasn't enough just to
offer up a tasty drink the raw material
was usually a very high-end tea cake the
contenders would grind their respective
tea cakes into a powder using the tea
utensils of the day the ground tea
powder was placed at the bottom of the
tea Bowl then using a lure a vessel to
pour water with one hand they poured and
with the other hand they whisked when
done upright and whisked perfectly the
froth on the tea was white or greenish
white the judge would check the whisk
and tea utensils for any traces of water
left on them and these amateurs and
masters who contended all have their own
stylized ways to enhance the whole tea
making experience and I'm sure when you
had all these witty minds in one room
together the poetry repartee and wits
was probably flying thick and fast and
if you're gonna whip that tea up into a
nice froth of white or greenish white
color nothing is gonna look better than
a lustrous black color tea Bowl to
complement the T the white against the
black really popped to facilitate this
one of the calling cards of the Song
Dynasty was born
this was their black color GN where it
came from gia
and Fujian province Jen where wasn't all
black little touches of color would be
added that inspired poems and just made
these tea bowls coveted and most
sought-after by collectors during the
song and a thousand years later the most
prized decorations were called names
like to how John or here's fur or
daimajin or tortoiseshell
jacoub on which was partridge feathers
another popular design was he OD or oil
droplets and the Song Dynasty tea ware
went from being a utilitarian object to
something collectors were willing to pay
a lot of money for by the way the reason
why the two how John or hares fur design
was considered the best was because
Emperor weight song himself said so in
his treatise were going to talk about in
a minute if the gen wear was inscribed
on the bottom with the words going you
then that meant the piece was tribute
wear and not your average
run-of-the-mill stuff the Emperor didn't
just get the best tea he also got the
best tea ware and just because you
couldn't afford the finest gen wear
didn't exclude you from enjoying this
pastime this Dolce custom was popular
with the masses as well as the swells
when this gen wear made it across the
East China Sea and into Japan it created
a sensation
I associate black tea ware more with
Japan than I do China but it all started
in the kilns of Jin Young in tea heaven
Fujian province some would argue this
but the ceramics from the song period
are the finest and most prized of
everything China has ever put out there
we discussed year where Shing where and
gen where there was also ding where and
the other icon of song ceramics ching by
porcelain song ching by porcelain that
was good stuff
it was almost translucent but much less
fragile than it looked
the color was white or greenish white as
the name Ching by suggests Ching is
grain and by his white Ching by and the
song was the prelude to that Ming blue
on white and the
Shayne using multiple colors on a white
canvas
there were many tea stories from the
song about these though chai events size
sham once faced off against the noted
literati sand calligrapher Xuan UN in
this story Tai Sheng chose the better
team but who should un brewed his tea
with the more superior Julie water Tai
Shan using an inferior but still
top-drawer weight red spring water as
the story goes lost the contest water
the mother of tea could make or break
your tea experience there was a new kid
in town during the Song Dynasty this was
when Fujian province started wearing its
crown as the producer of the greatest
teas tea culture in Fujian got itself
noticed during the song they originated
the whole dole cha custom that caught on
and all the other provinces even Emperor
waits on he loved to participate in
these contests this little bit of Chawan
hua tea culture all started in Fujian in
the time of the northern song people
began to notice the tea masters in
Fujian did something special with their
leaves tea bushes and food Qin aren't
any different than the tea bushes in su
chuan the terroir was not the same of
course but in Fujian they did things
different the tea growing masters in
Fujian are going to create a whole new
category of tea called Wolong that is
going to take the country by storm and
become the preferred kind of tea of
artists literary types and elites all
over tea had gotten big enough in song
China where the government began to take
an even more active role in the trade
the Chamaco da we discussed in previous
episodes the ancient tea horse road we
saw how this trade route did so much to
bring tea Buddhism and some elements of
Chinese culture to the Tibetans and
others beyond China's far west borders
but it was handled on a very small scale
and though the job got done it was very
high cost dangerous and logistically
inefficient the geopolitical dynamic of
the Thai
called for a little more aggressive
action by the government with regard to
the tea horse trade do you remember from
previous episodes CHP 28 on the northern
Song Dynasty and that four-part series
on emperor weights on one of the major
headaches of the sonne emperors from
child quan yin the founder all the way
to weight song was that they all had to
deal with a lot of aggressive and
murderous barbarian surrounding them on
three sides we remember that the song
government used old ways to humour the
horde surrounding them they bought them
off paid massive tribute played one off
against the other and used all kinds of
ways going back to the Han Emperor's to
try and keep everyone at bay they were
able to do this to some extent through
trade and diplomacy but in order to show
they meant business the song military
had to constantly be on alert and ready
to carry out a show of force whenever
these Tong guts
jurchens Weger Keaton and Mongols too
started getting designs on China all of
them were constantly probing China soft
spots looking for some sort of advantage
the song government badly needed these
people of the steps because of the
demand for horses during the song the
need was greater than ever before in
China's history foot soldiers were at a
terrible disadvantage against mounted
warriors the government early on in the
reign of the Jun song emperor 997 to
1022 began to lay the groundwork for
government intervention in the tea for
horses trade and even though this brick
tea was made from the least desirable
tea leaves and contains stems was
terribly bitter compared to the good
stuff the demand for this tea bitter or
not from the Tibetans and other border
peoples was no less than the song
military's insatiable demand for their
horses that was a fair trade I think
tea for horses both sides had something
the other wanted over time they had
established market prices for everything
about a hundred and thirty pounds of
brick tea
59 kilos got you one horse this clean
and honest business was quite a contrast
with eight centuries later when the
British traders were trading for tea
with China most of the tea in Sichuan
and Yunnan ended up being processed into
this brick tea and shipped from yon near
Chengdu westward to Lhasa but no matter
how much tea they could pick process
packaged and shipped to the Tibetans and
others to the west it wasn't enough the
song needed hundreds of thousands of
horses five million pounds of tea if
they had that much production at 130
pounds per equine specimen yielded only
38 thousand four hundred and sixty one
point five four horses the people up in
Mongolia Manchuria Ching hai they didn't
have this problem that's why they
couldn't be beat the song military was
able to subdue the tonne goats of the
Western Shah for a while but amongst the
northern sown Emperor's there was no han
moody or tongue-tied zone no great
warrior Emperor to conquer these
troublesome people to the north and to
the west
but this trade in tea for horses at
least kept the Song Dynasty in the game
they can never get enough horses out of
the Tibetans and their enemies certainly
weren't gonna trade horses you don't see
the US military selling f-22 Raptors to
their enemies horses were the advanced
weaponry of their day so why should the
Jurchen sell them to their rival to the
south but what the song government was
able to procure is certainly aided in
the preservation of the dynasty I'm
telling you the song horse purchasing
department really cleaned the Tibetans
out initially set up in 1007 under jun
song and then institutionalized under
shun song in 1070 for the TN horse
agency based in su chuan was the song
office tasked to fight this losing
battle the reforms surrounding this
office and how it was staffed and
operated was one of the reforms champion
by Wong I'm sure remember him we
mentioned Wang I'm sure before he was
the great reformer during the
seong six government-run horse markets
were created and operated efficiently in
the southwest of su chuan to deal with
their Tibetan counterparts so teeth
innocently enough because people who
came in touch with it loved it so much
continued to play a role in not only
China's daily social life but because of
export demand it brought income into the
Royal coffers that allowed the brilliant
lights of the song to keep burning
bright in the song tea had established
itself as a component of the Chi Minh
Chi Thien shared the seven necessities
of daily living in China the original
six were firewood rice oil salt soy
sauce and vinegar back in times before
the song if you woke up on a deserted
island you had to have those six things
but now in the song the seven thing you
couldn't do without became tea that's
how important tea had become in China
tea houses were now commonplace in China
it started in the tongue maybe the sway
but the number of tea houses in China
during the song exploded and once the
tea houses proliferated as much as they
did they in turn served like a bellows
to stoke the fires for the emergence of
new kinds of Chinese tea culture every
city in China had their own little take
on tea Song Dynasty tea culture drew
from all these individual customs and
practices from not only the palace and
Chi Fung but also these individual tea
cultures that developed in the great
cities along the answer and in the
watery worlds of Cho Chang and Jung soo
in these tea houses the whole culture of
dou cha would be carried out throughout
the Song Dynasty Chon Buddhism in the
song reached a golden age of fuel again
let me use that worn-out overused clich
the whole notion of Chon Buddhist
embracing tea so fervently as an aid in
meditation gained prominence under
master Chang maudlin yin - Taria Taishan
the sacred mount tai near jina
he was one of the best-known Chon
masters of his age the Chi urine era of
the Tong
7:13 a 741 this was the most splendid
period of the most splendid time in the
Tong dynasty these were Emperor
Shenzhen's best years it was supposedly
master Shang more zong who used his
prestige as Chon master at such a sacred
spot at Mount Tai to propagate the
benefits of drinking tea to stave off
sleep during meditation and as an aid in
getting for the evening when fasting
such words praising tea from someone as
revered as chan master Chang maudlin and
monastery was quite an endorsement this
was sort of like an official sanction
this is just a legend I don't think ever
historically verified the Buddhist
monasteries held tea so close to their
bosom and were enthusiastic proponents
of all things great about tea
they lived amongst a population that I
guess you could say was rather Buddhist
at the time it can't be denied that
monasteries were a walking talking PR
department for the merits of drinking
and savoring tea some might say Chinese
tea culture really spiked during the
time of wait song we've told his story
in four parts not too long ago many
high-profile luminaries of the song
sighs young hygiene su-sure and others
throughout their career extolled the
virtues of tea and wrote poems and
calligraphy to the merits of tea but
when it came to tea culture no one
during the northern Song Dynasty was
bigger than Wade's own tea culture in
the northern song hit a high note during
the first half of wait songs rain from
1100 to 11:26 he took everything Lulu's
said and like Tae Yong added his two
cents worth like Lu Yu he gave in 20
steps a state-of-the-art commentary on
teas history how to grow it the
conditions you need how to make it
assess it grind it and so on and so
forth it was called the guanciale the
treatise on tea also called general
remarks on tea tweets on publish
this during the pleasant part of his
tragic rain in 1107 one of the things
about weights on that would have been
unheard of prior to his time was that he
occasionally used to enjoy preparing tea
for all his counselors when they get
together an official business or after
hours this was the kind of thing we
don't like to do as in all the arts of
the time the Emperor loved to be looked
upon as the final arbiter and what was
art and what was good taste white tea
makes its debut on the tea stage around
this time plainsong had a section of his
da Quan Chau goon where he says and I'm
quoting petit Brie's book and parade
song quote white tea is different from
all others and deemed the finest with
wide spreading branches and thin shiny
leaves the trees grow wild and forested
cliffs their product is very spares
however then there is nothing one can do
about it four or five families on the
buy your own tea estate have some trees
of this kind but only a handful of them
come to leaf so no more than two or
three bag fills can be gathered each
year both shoots and leaves are small
steaming and firing them is rather
difficult for if the temperature is not
exactly right they will taste like
ordinary tea thus a higher order of
skill is needed and the drying must be
carefully done if everything is exactly
as it should be the product of such
trees will excel all others unquote you
see it was during the song that tea
masters figured out the youngest buds
would produce a unique taste as far as
mildness subtlety and refreshing taste
ways on wasn't pulling your leg it was
indeed hard to get and because the raw
material was limited so was the supply
it's called white tea because so young
are the buds used that are picked that
they still have these tiny white hairs
on them I've read this white tea of the
song was not the same as the white tea
we're familiar with in these days that
was a creation of the Ching dynasty tea
masters and
late 1700s and into the eighteen
hundreds in the last ten years or so
white tea has been marketed in the US
and all kinds of forms by the tea and
beverage industry
it's hailed for its ability to help you
with weight loss lower your blood
pressure give you healthier bones and
skin and of course because of all the
antioxidants it also has the same cancer
preventive properties is green tea white
tea because it has the absolute minimum
amount of processing involved in taking
the tea leaves to the final product
retains the highest level of
antioxidants because of the chemical
EGCG mentioned in tea history part two
epic aloe catagen three Galit
researchers in Germany have produced
studies showing white tea helped people
lose weight five white teas you might
have heard of Silver Needle long-life
eyebrow tribute eyebrow white peony and
snow bud I randomly checked an online
tea store and saw engines Silver Needle
tea going for $30 per quarter pound so
120 bucks per pound all the way from
John Cook County to your door junk food
and food ding are the two places most
famous for that northern Fujian white
tea with regard to the best tea bowls
wait song was always chasing the
thinnest most delicate balls in his dog
Wan Chai noon he says and again quoting
from Patricia a breeze at birth weights
on quote the best kinds of tea bowls are
very dark blue almost black they should
be relatively deep so that the surface
of the liquid will attain a milky color
and also why to allow for whipping with
a bamboo whisk unquote and as for the
whisk weight song explains quote this
should be made of flexible bamboo the
handle should be heavy the brush like
slivers light their tips sharpest swords
then when the whisk is used they were
not likely to be too many troubles
unquote Emperor waits on everybody he
didn't get to drink too much
beauty in his last years teas scented
from flowers were another song
innovation for the first time teas
scented with jasmine rose and osmanthus
started showing up osmanthus is known as
boy watch ha in mandarin today it's
another one of the great health drinks
and the american tea industry the
government didn't only muscle in on the
tea and horse trade tea had become
important and sophisticated enough
whereby the government and all its
wisdom decided a system needed to be
created to standardize the grading and
quality of teas produced in the market
not surprisingly the most sought-after
teas in the Song Dynasty were the ones
whose leaves came from trees or bushes
growing in the shadows of China's most
sacred and illustrious mountains the Lu
Yu of Japan lived during this time of
the song again I don't want to get too
deep into the history of tea in Japan
but it's important to know of me on a
sigh I mentioned him in part 2 he lived
11:41 to 1215 a sigh had multiple claims
to fame he is most credited with
bringing green tea to Japan from China
he also studied the greens I school of
China Zen Buddhism that had been around
since the Tong dynasty it wasn't one of
the larger sects in China but it sure
caught on big in Japan a sigh made his
first trip to China and 1168 a Buddhist
pilgrimage of course he stayed in China
for 23 years and returned to Japan not
only with chan buddhist scriptures but
tea seeds and the latest tea cultivation
know how he planted these seeds and the
uchi hills just outside kyoto for the
rest of his days a site propagated a lot
of what he picked up in china after two
decades of tea drinking the whole idea
about the Japanese tea ceremony as art
and all the unique rituals and aspects
of Japanese tea culture are said to have
begun with a size return from China in
1191 the Heian era had just ended and
this
the Kamakura period one year before
Minamoto no Yoritomo a name no less
great their history as pom tight song is
in China let me read a poem by the
Japanese Buddhist monk mule egg it's
called the ten virtues of tea and shines
a light on what tea by the song meant in
Japan Society
milah is ten our quote tea has the
blessing of all deities tea promotes
filial piety tea drives away evil
spirits tea banishes drowsiness tea
keeps the five internal organs in
harmony tea Ward's off disease tea
strengthens friendship tea disciplines
body and mind tea destroys the passions
tea grants a peaceful death I'm sure it
sounded better in Japanese let's finish
off with Wolong tea between now in the
end of this series I'll try and give you
a nice general overview of all the main
teas if by chance listening to all 10
episodes inspires you to dedicate
yourself to learning about tea that's
great if you like tea and you just want
to learn a little more to expand your
awareness I hope this series offers you
something useful the list is very long
of tea experts who write blogs books run
tea shops online stores some have
YouTube channels and Facebook and
Twitter pages
you can learn a lot fast and get right
on it let's look at Wolong I heard 3
banal versions of how this tea got its
name
Wu means black long means dragon this
tea is so good it's in a class by itself
of the five categories of tea white
green yellow red and black a sixth one
had to be added just for long it wasn't
green and it wasn't black nowadays black
tea and poo RT are used interchangeably
but who long it was something in between
and that spectrum of how oxidized the
tea masters allow the leaf to get varied
anywhere from 10% to 85%
so the tea masters and all the great
long growing tea gardens in Fujian
Guangdong and Taiwan have all kinds of
ways to work their leaves to give their
tea its unique everything in the
beginning there was Baker and tea from
Fujian this was brick tea from the Tong
that became one of the earliest tribute
teas for the Emperor weight song himself
mentioned bei NT as superior in his
treatise da Quan childhood this bay and
tea was made into tea cakes called Leung
Fung Wong sha dragon Phoenix tea cake
when brick sort of became passe the good
people there in failure and needed to
come up with an encore to their once
famous product Long Feng Quan Chau they
came up with this new kind of partially
oxidized tea that although processed in
a laborious fashion requiring a few
extra steps yielded a particular flavor
as yet never tasted back in the old days
when Westerners were just starting to
learn about tea processing the word
fermentation got bandied about as the
chemical process that turns the leaves
from green to black the fermentation as
you remember from high school
microbiology 113 only takes place where
there's no oxygen oxidation as the name
suggests requires oxygen when you break
open that Lipton tea bag and see that T
that is fully oxidized black leaf if you
don't oxidize it or as they say in the
trade don't allow for fermentation then
you will have green or white tea black
tea is fully oxidized mu long tea that's
somewhere in between and just how in
between is the difference you can taste
from tea garden to tea garden I don't
like to generalize but in general if you
want to compress all the different kinds
of long tea into three main kinds first
are the we rock teas of the we mountains
we shun and northern fuu-chin then there
is chick wanyan or iron buddha or
goddess of mercy tea I'm sure you've had
it before
Guan Yin and Buddhism how
the needy if you were down and out and
needed a miracle you prayed to Guan Yin
the goddess of mercy as she is sometimes
referred to tieguanyin tea comes from
unchi in the south of Fujian this is
just north of shaman in west of Trento
third kind of who long used to be known
a century ago is Formosa oolong this is
wool dong tea from Taiwan in a class by
itself one of the tell-tale signs of
long TR the edges of the leaf when you
look closely after the leaves are
steeped the edges have a slight russet
color to them this is part of that magic
worked into the leaves by the master
artisans who make one long for long tea
the yield plucked will be greatest in
the spring but it's the leaves picked in
the autumn that are considered the most
fragrant don't forget the six steps to
drinking tieguanyin observe listen view
smell taste appreciate as I said in a
previous episode the wooly mountains are
located in northern Fujin not far from
the border with gem shi this area is a
unesco world heritage site the tea
makers and Louise Shan aren't going to
Wow the tea drinking world until the end
of the Ming beginning of the Ching their
green tea though still in cake form in
the song by Imperial decree one day will
be morphed into this special loose leaf
tea that the Louise Shan area will
become famous for it's called yin cha or
rock tea rock tea because the original
trees grew out of these rock cliffs that
made up the historic tea producing area
of we shun the Fugees tea craftsmen of
the late song and early Ming it seemed
weren't completely familiar with the pan
firing technology that had been mastered
by the producers across the border an
odd way they had learned that when you
pick the leaves and allow them to wither
a bit and the Sun get them nice and
pliable and loose if you fire them or
sha Qing and Mandarin kill the green you
could
any further chance of further enzymatic
oxidation of the leaves that's why
they're green but if you don't fire the
leaves or steam them they start turning
black on you these channel up in the we
shine area of northern Fujin either on
purpose or by accident figured out how
to control the level of oxidation
through the application of heat at
critical times they could wholly or
partially oxidized the leaves as they
wished the most famous yen cha or we
shan-rock teased our names like da Hong
Pao Tim Mohan by g'quan Shui Cinque as
well as Shui Shen passion and ropeway in
this small part of Fujian everything
worked out geologically over millions of
years whereby the soil the climate the
altitude all worked out perfectly for
the small tea growing region to exist
today is ouya Shanthi growing areas
broken down into three main regions Jung
ent Bonn ent and Jyoti Jung ent grows in
the rocks and the highest peaks of the
picturesque mountains the Bond ent grows
in the foothills surrounding these rock
mountains the Jyothi grows near the
banks of the two rivers that wind
through the wuyi shan the jo and the
boshy and rivers it takes seven stages
of processing for your average we long
tea withering tossing and bruising
oxidation fixing rolling and forming
drying and firing so easy to name these
steps it's not the steps but how they
perform each step that's where the
individual craftsmanship takes over it's
like craft beers there's no limit to how
you can subtly manipulate the process to
derive a unique tea tasting experience
how much you let those leaves oxidize
and how you work the leaves during the
process is what determines the outcome
the whole way that these leaves from a
camellias enhances
bush a tree turn into the high quality
teas we know today is not an intuitive
process at all that's why it took so
long for those outside China to figure
it out as we can see from these four
episodes so far it took the Chinese
centuries to get everything just right
we've seen how tea evolved from the
crudest most bitter brew so bitter it
shared the Chinese character for a
bitter vegetable between the time of the
ancient Bosch who state in search Wan
through the Chien hung Tong and now the
song tea evolved in fits and starts into
this refined and sophisticated level in
the song famous tribute tea villages
dotted we shine in the north and in XI
in the south were to Guan Yin has made
tea didn't come to Taiwan till the early
18th century but what it did in a few
years after those tea trees planted
their roots and that nice soil of nantou
gie and Hualien counties the Masters
there also turned out a magical long T
that would gain world renowned will come
back again and look at Wolong and many
other kinds of teas mulan tea is special
and it's during the song that Fujian
teas sort of come to the fore nowadays
especially in the health products
industry long tea is often touted as an
aid to weight loss and a remedy for a
number of afflictions or maladies in the
Ming and afterwards it'll seem all that
matters is Fujian province in episode 10
we'll review most of the major tribute
teas which as I said make up a healthy
share of the fine artisan loose leaf
teas you could buy online in our modern
age in the next episode the Ming Dynasty
founder julian jung is going to make an
imperial edict that says henceforth tea
should be packed in a loose-leaf form
and not into these brick shapes anymore
you think with everything we know today
about tea that this idea should have
come a lot sooner alas the whole notion
of loose tea like we know and love it
today only began in the Ming Dynasty
that's what we'll look at next time for
now this is Laszlo Montgomery signing
off from Gainesville GA in the Peach
State Georgia I'm here visiting some
family I hope you'll find it in your
heart to consider joining me next time
for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast